<b>DINGO (Direct and INdirect analysis of Genetic lOci) </b>

DINGO is a tool for increasing the power of locus discovery in GWAS meta-analyses of perinatal quantitative phenotypes and traits influenced by indirect genetic effects.
DINGO pipeline runs four analyses:
1. It estimates the direct maternal and fetal effects and their standard errors using a weighted linear model (WLM) while accounting for sample overlap
2. It performs a two-degree-of-freedom test of maternal and fetal effects
3. It performs a one-degree-of-freedom meta-analysis of maternal effects
4. It performs a one-degree-of-freedom meta-analysis of fetal effects

<b>Getting Started </b>

DINGO is implemented in the online Complex Trait Genetics Virtual Laboratory (CTG-VL)(https://vl.genoma.io/analyses). <br>
GWAS summary results statistics can be uploaded to the CTG-VL, following the instruction provided here: https://vl.genoma.io/upload 

In brief, the file should have exactly the column names specified below, be tab separated and minimum should contain the columns CHR, BP, SNP, A1, A2, FREQ, BETA, SE and P. The column "N" is optional but highly recommended if there are large discrepancies between sample sizes for each SNP.
Example of an input files is as follows:

        CHR	BP	SNP	A1	A2	FREQ	BETA	SE	P   N
        7	92383888	rs10	A	C	0.06431	 0.0013	0.0042	 7.5e-01    85000
        12	126890980	rs1000000	A	G	0.2219	 0.0001	0.0021	 9.6e-01    85000
        4	21618674	rs10000010	T	C	0.5086	-0.0001	0.0016	 9.4e-01    85000
        4	1357325	rs10000012	C	G	0.8634	 0.0047	0.0025	 5.7e-02    85000
        4	37225069	rs10000013	A	C	0.7708	-0.0061	0.0021	 3.3e-03    85000

!It is important to removed SNP with BETA = 0 before running DINGO analysis or it will return errors! 

The uploaded data can be found at: https://vl.genoma.io/data. A status of "Ready" indicates the summary results statistics are ready to be used in DINGO analysis.

<b>How to run DINGO?</b>

Click the "Analyses" panel and then "DINGO" will take you to the DINGO tool at: https://vl.genoma.io/analyses/dingo  <br>
Select your "Fetal GWAS" and "Maternal GWAS" from the dropdown list.  <br>
Click "Run analysis" to run the DINGO pipeline, which include both the two-degree-of-freedom test and the one-degree-of-freedom meta-analyses.  <br>
A status of "Ready" indicates the analysis is done and you can download the results directly.  <br>

The DINGO output file includes:  <br>
CHR: Chromosome <br>
SNP: rsID <br>
BP: Base pair position <br>
EA_F: Effect allele  <br>
NEA: Non-effect allele <br>
EAF_F: Effect allele frequency from the fetal GWAS <br>
EAF_M: Effect allele frequency from the maternal GWAS <br>
BETA_F: Beta from the fetal GWAS <br>
SE_F: Standard error from the fetal GWAS <br>
P_F: P-value from the fetal GWAS <br>
N_F: Sample size of the fetal GWAS <br>
BETA_M: Beta from the maternal GWAS <br>
SE_M: Standard error from the maternal GWAS <br>
P_M: P-value from the maternal GWAS <br>
N_M: Sample size of the maternal GWAS <br>
BETA_F_ADJ: Beta of the conditional fetal effect <br>
SE_F_ADJ: Standard error of the conditional fetal effect <br>
P_F_ADJ: P-value of the conditional fetal effect <br>
BETA_M_ADJ: Beta of the conditional maternal effect <br>
SE_M_ADJ: Standard error of the conditional maternal effect <br>
P_M_ADJ: P-value of the conditional maternal effect <br>
P_2DF: P-value of the DINGO two degree of freedom test <br>
P_F_META: P-value of the fetal one degree of freedom meta-analysis <br>
P_M_META: P-value of the maternal one degree of freedom meta-analysis <br>

CTG-VL automatically calculates the intercept of bivariate LD score regression of the two selected GWAS using European LSDCs generated by the Pan-UK Biobank project (https://pan.ukbb.broadinstitute.org/) and use it to run DINGO. 
To use your own intercept, please run the DINGO R script locally.

<b>Citation</b>

For DINGO, please cite <br>
Hwang LD, et al. Direct and INdirect effects analysis of Genetic lOci (DINGO): A software package to increase the power of locus discovery in GWAS meta-analyses of perinatal quantitative phenotypes and traits influenced by indirect genetic effects.

For CTG-VL, please cite <br>
Cuéllar-Partida G, et al. Complex-Traits Genetics Virtual Lab: A community-driven web platform for post-GWAS analyses. bioRxiv 518027 (2019)

<b>Authors</b>

Liang-Dar Hwang (The University of Queensland) <br>
Gabriel Cuéllar-Partida (Gilead Sciences) <br>
David Evans (The University of Queensland)
